---
title: "STEINS;GATE 0 Steam patch: Installing on Linux"
layout: page
permalink: "/projects/sg0-linux.html"
active_tab: projects
date: 2020-08-21 17:56:06 +0100
excerpt: <p>Linux installation instructions for the STEINS;GATE 0 Steam patch</p>
---

[← Back to project page]({{ "/projects/sg0-steam.html" | relative_url }})

These instructions are for running the game from the Linux Steam client using Steam Play. Running the game with your own Wine installation should be considered unsupported.

1. Install [Winetricks](https://github.com/Winetricks/winetricks) for your Linux distribution.
2. In Steam, go to *View* → *Settings* → *Steam Play* and *Enable Steam Play for all titles*, if you haven't already.
3. Note what Proton version you're using. We have only tested with *Proton 5.0-9* (the default and most recent version at the time of writing).
4. Install *STEINS;GATE 0*.
5. Download the patch.
6. Unzip the archive somewhere, not in your game directory.
7. Browse to the newly extracted `SG0Patch-v<version>-Setup` folder.
8. **DO NOT** simply run SG0Patch-Installer.exe with Wine.

    Instead, open a shell and use the following commands:

    Install `vcrun2017` with winetricks:
    <div><pre><code>WINEPREFIX=~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/compatdata/825630/pfx winetricks vcrun2017</code></pre></div>
    
    <div><pre><code>STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH=~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/compatdata/825630 ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton\ 5.0-9/proton run SG0Patch-Installer.exe</code></pre></div>

    **IMPORTANT:** If the Steam library you installed *STEINS;GATE 0* into is somewhere else, replace both occurrences of `~/.local/share/Steam` accordingly. If you're not using *Proton 5.0-9*, replace that too (check your `steamapps/common` to find the right folder).

9. Follow the instructions.

# Playing

Clicking *Play* in Steam should now run the patch launcher. Make sure you've clicked *Finish* in the installer before trying to start the launcher.

# Known issues

* Kanji in karaoke subtitles are rendered as boxes.
* Leaving the installer running too long may crash it (this has been reported fixed, if you encounter this please let us know)

# Troubleshooting

### After clicking Play, Steam installs DirectX, then the launcher starts. After clicking Start Game, the game starts unpatched.

You ran the installer with a different Wine/Proton version than the one you configured Steam to use for STEINS;GATE 0. Rerun the installer with the version you want to use, and make sure Steam is set up to use it for launching the game.

# Uninstalling

To uninstall, browse to the game directory (e.g. `~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/STEINS;GATE 0`), open a shell and run:

<pre><code>STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH=~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/compatdata/825630 ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton\ 5.0-9/proton run nguninstall.exe</code></pre>

Note this will leave your game unable to start, as Steam Play currently has an issue with the game's `boot.bat` script which we work around by replacing it with a symlink to the patch launcher, `LauncherC0.exe`. After you uninstall the patch, that program will be gone, so you'll need to replace `boot.bat` with either a symlink to or a copy of the game's official launcher, `launcher.exe`, to make it work again.

[← Back to project page]({{ "/projects/sg0-steam.html" | relative_url }})