---
title: "CHAOS;CHILD Steam patch: Installing on Linux"
layout: page
permalink: "/projects/cc-linux.html"
active_tab: projects
date: 2019-02-02 00:00:00 +0100
excerpt: <p>Linux installation instructions for the CHAOS;CHILD Steam patch</p>
---

[← Back to project page]({{ "/projects/chaoschild-steam.html" | relative_url }})

These instructions are for running the game from the Linux Steam client using Steam Play. Running the game with your own Wine installation should be considered unsupported.

1. In Steam, go to *View* → *Settings* → *Steam Play* and *Enable Steam Play for all titles*, if you haven't already.
2. Note what Proton version you're using. We have only tested with *Proton 3.16-6 Beta* (the default and most recent version at the time of writing).
3. Install *CHAOS;CHILD*.
4. Download the patch.
5. Unzip the archive somewhere, not in your game directory.
6. Browse to the newly extracted `CCPatch-v<version>-Setup` folder.
7. **DO NOT** simply run CCPatch-Installer.exe with Wine.

    Instead, open a shell and use the following command:
    
    <div><pre><code>STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH=~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/compatdata/970570 ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton\ 3.16\ Beta/proton run CCPatch-Installer.exe</code></pre></div>

    **IMPORTANT:** If the Steam library you installed *CHAOS;CHILD* into is somewhere else, replace both occurrences of `~/.local/share/Steam` accordingly. If you're not using *Proton 3.16-6 Beta*, replace that too (check your `steamapps/common` to find the right folder).

8. Follow the instructions.

# Playing

Clicking *Play* in Steam should now run the patch launcher. Make sure you've clicked *Finish* in the installer before trying to start the launcher.

# Known issues

* Kanji in karaoke subtitles are rendered as boxes.
* Leaving the installer running too long may crash it.

# Troubleshooting

### After clicking Play, Steam installs DirectX, then the launcher starts. After clicking Start Game, the game starts unpatched.

You ran the installer with a different Wine/Proton version than the one you configured Steam to use for CHAOS;CHILD. Rerun the installer with the version you want to use, and make sure Steam is set up to use it for launching the game.

# Uninstalling

To uninstall, browse to the game directory (e.g. `~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/CHAOS;CHILD`), open a shell and run:

<pre><code>STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH=~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/compatdata/970570 ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Proton\ 3.16\ Beta/proton run nguninstall.exe</code></pre>

Note this will leave your game unable to start, as Steam Play currently has an issue with the game's `boot.bat` script which we work around by replacing it with a symlink to the patch launcher, `LauncherC0.exe`. After you uninstall the patch, that program will be gone, so you'll need to replace `boot.bat` with either a symlink to or a copy of the game's official launcher, `launcher.exe`, to make it work again.

[← Back to project page]({{ "/projects/chaoschild-steam.html" | relative_url }})